grid - geoemtric item manipolation tool

author: Georg Umgiesser

Description

grid is a tool that manipolates geometric items interactively on the
screen. It is primarily suited for two-dimensional finite element grids
and similar. It alowes a grid to be imported, changed and at the end
of the session be saved for further use.

grid works on entities called items. At the moment there are 4 different
items available: nodes, elements, lines and vectors. Following a
short description of the items is given.

Nodes are items with
a two-dimensional coordinates (x,y) associated. It defines a 
point in the horizontal plane. Optionaly, there is a
third value associated with the node, which we will call from now on
depth. 

An element is a two-dimensional entity defining an area. 
Elements are defined by a list of nodes, that give the border of
the element. Elements are consist always of closed contours.
A triangle for example is defined by the list of 3 nodes.
An optional depth may be associated with an element.

A line, as in the case of an element, is defined by a list of nodes.
There is no depth associated with a line. If in the list of nodes
the first and last node are identical, the line defines a closed
contour. But at the contrary to an element, there is no area
associated with a line. An element is always a closed geometric
figure, a line may or may not be closed. Note that there are 3 nodes
to define a triangle as an element, but to define a triangular
contour with a line, you need 4 nodes (the first and last node
are identical).

A vector consists, as in the case of the node, of a two-dimensional
coordinate (x,y) that defines the base of the vector. Furthermore, it
consists of a pair (or more pairs) (s,d) which are interpreted
as the length (speed) and direction of the vector. The direction
is meassured, as usual in meteorology, from North (up).
So a value of 0. defines a vector (wind) pointing to the South
(down, North-wind) and a value of 90. is a vector pointing
to the West (left, East-wind). More pairs (s,d) may be given.

Associated with all these items is a number, identifying the
items between each others. The number must be unique between
items of the same species. There may be only one node with
number 1, but there may be also an element 1, a line 1 etc.
Also associated with each item is a type. A type is a small
integer that lets you group single items together. E.g. nodes
in a certain area of the horizontal plane may be given type 1, and
others type 2 etc.

grid alowes these items to be interactively manipulated. The following
actions are possible on the different items:

- nodes
        - make (create) node
        - delete node
        - move node

- elements
        - make element
        - delete element

- lines
        - make line
        - delete line
        - split line (create two lines out of one splitting it)
        - join line (create one line out of two lines)

- vectors
        - delete vector
        - change vector (if more than one pair (s,d) is given,
                the various pairs may be chosen)

Furthermore, grid alowes to change the depth of nodes and elements
and the type of all the entities given above.
