
Usage of the grid utility

The GRD file consists of different items. The items that are recognized
are nodes, elements and lines. Nodes have coordinates and may have a
depth. Elements and lines consist of a list of nodes and may also have
a depth. The difference between elements and lines is that elements are
always closed, and the depth property is referring to the center of the
element, whereas lines are normally open. You can have closed lines,
but then the first and last node must be the same. On the contrary, you
should never make the first and last node of an element the same node,
because the element is implicitly closed.

With the utility grid you can view and manipulate a GRD file. The grid
utility also has the possibility to manipulate a vector item type,
but this is not yet fully supported. Please ignore this feature for
the moment.

An important issue is how to choose an item. When grid starts, it
normally always is in "node" mode. This means it allows you to chose a
node item. To change this, please go to the Show menu item, and choose
whatever item you would like to view or manipulate.

In order to choose an item you have to put the mouse close to the item and
then right click on it. If the item can be found it is highlighted. Once
the item is highlighted you can choose it definitively by left clicking
with the mouse.

Once you are done with the grid utility, you can exit from it. Please
note that the saving of the file into a new file is a little bit different
from what you are probably used to. If you exit and you have not changed
anything, nothing will happen. But if you have changed something in the
GRD file, then you are asked to give a new file name in order to save
the changes. The program will not accept a file name that is already
existing, so it will never overwrite an old file. Please note that
if you are hitting return on the question to input a new file name,
the changes are not saved and you will loose your changes.


Some examples are given below:

To manipulate nodes, choose an action from the Nodes menu. To create
(make) a node, choose the sub-menu action and simply left click where
you want to put the node. However, with the other actions you first have
to choose the node, and then you can act on it. So, in order to delete
a node, first right click on the node, and if it is the desired node,
confirm by left clicking. If it is not the right node, just continue
right clicking until you have chosen the right node. The same is true
for move or unify nodes.  Please remember that you cannot delete a node if
the node is part of an element or line. You can only delete single nodes.

In order to create elements, you input the nodes either directly by
left clicking on the desired position, or you choose an already existing
node by right clicking and then confirm by left clicking. For deleting
(or removing) an element, right click on the element until you have the
right element chosen, and then confirm with the left click. The difference
between deleting and removing is in the treatment of the nodes. If the
deletion of an element leaves a single (not connected) node, delete
leaves the node as it is, but remove cancels the single nodes.

The same is true for manipulating lines. Tow more options are available
for lines. Split line allows to split lines on an node. You first have
to choose the line, and then to choose the node where to split. So
right click until you have identified the line, and confirm by left
clicking, then again right click to choose the node and then confirm
by left clicking. Once the lien has been split, if you look at the line
(in Show set "Show Line") you should see two lines where once was just
one line. Finally, you can also join two lines that have one node in
common. Just follow the indications on the screen.

Finally with the menu "Change" you can change the type of an item or
its depth.  Fist choose in "Show" on what item you want to operate,
then choose "Change Depth" or "Change Type". You can then either input
with the keyboard the type or depth, or you can click on an item and
the program will use the type or depth of this item. After this you
choose and confirm (right and left click) the items you want to change.
You can change as many items as you want. Once you are done, just choose
another command (or Refresh from the File menu) in order to stop changing.




